there's one thing you should know about
Sonic Unleashed before spending your
hard-earned money on it it's a big piece
of garbage big piece of garbage that
should probably be enough to warn off
anybody who's thinking about playing it
but I guess we should talk a little bit
more about it just in case you like to
hear this tortured sound of my voice
indeed it's games like this that make
reviewers rethink their lives now I have
a theory when it comes to Sonic games
someone at sega hates the hedgehog with
all his might and he's going about
trying to sabotage the franchise with
these awful games this is the only
explanation that makes any sense to me
pretty much every decision made for this
game was the wrong one and Sonic ends up
taking more beating than a pinata
because gameplay and Sonic and leashes
split up into three equal parts there
are daytime stages which are actually
very good there are 19 stages which are
actually complete rubbish and then
there's also the hub city where you do a
lot of exploration stuff and that's
boring as can be now the date-time
stages are actually pretty fun it's fast
platforming that is mostly on Rails and
for a brief moment you might actually
think yourself wow this is what a
current-gen sonic game should be of
course your hopes will be brutally dash
later on but never mind that for now the
daytime sections aren't perfect by any
mean the jump button can be fatally
unresponsive at times and it's just a
lot of trial and error gameplay that can
get a little bit repetitive after a
while you know if the game was just 3
hours and only contain these daytime
section it wouldn't be such a bad thing
and actually it'd be a pretty good game
you know I can even overlook the stupid
airplane part that they stuck in which
is a rail shooter where you don't
actually really get to shoot guns I
would see the problem is the Sun Goes
Down and what happens when the Sun Goes
Down well of course Sonic turns into a
werewolf oh excuse me werehog if you
want to use the official terminology now
the reasons why it does this as well
well it's not really worth getting into
however you should know that the game
changes completely gone is the speed of
sonic replaced by a bunch of boring
brawling sections the frame rates bad
the cameras bad and the fighting stuff
is just tedious and terrible as the
werehog you go around beating the crap
out of stuff and performing a bunch of
really bad platforming sections
oh yeah and you have stretchy arms
because you know everybody knows that
werewolves have stretchy arms even worse
is that these stages rag on for like a
half hour each there's no excuse to
extend the pain this much especially
since the fun daytime level is only last
four or five minutes sonic the Werehog
makes big the cat look like an endearing
character yeah it's that bad even if
there were just those two kinds of
levels skin wouldn't be that bad sure
you'd have to endure a horrible night
time levels but you'd always know that
the daytime was coming soon enough and
you'd get enjoy though however team
sonic didn't want to let any slip-up
happy they had to make this game bad so
how do you make it worse well first you
add completely unnecessary RPG elements
you gain XP for every bad guy you kill
and then you can spend this XP to
increase things like sonic speed or your
where hogs move centers it's not so
terrible but it does seem unnecessary I
mean really do i need to pay to upgrade
sonic speed shouldn't sonic be as fast
as you can be from the get-go isn't that
the reason why i bought a sonic game in
the first place but that's not all I've
saved the best for last convinced that
Sonic fans don't just want to run really
fast and have fun there are hub worlds
these terrible terrible hub worlds are
where you aim lessly walk around talk to
people for no reason and collect coins
to get to the next level oh and you can
cleanse people's souls by taking
pictures of them I'm not even joking
about that these subs are giant waste of
time that only serve to annoy the player
and once again it's just more gameplay
that's keeping you away from the one
part of Sonic that's fun and that's the
daytime levels Sonic Unleashed is a
classic example of what happens when a
good idea isn't left alone there's just
too much fussing that's been done to
this once good formula it's kind of like
having a group of five-year-olds come up
with ideas after giving them a bowl full
of sugar sure there are fun parts buried
inside but don't subject yourself to the
pain but the best thing I can say about
Sonic and leash is that it does at least
make the old sonic the hedgehog games
look a whole lot better I guess that's
something for the full written review
and on over to IGN com
you